few years ago about seven years ago I
found myself hiding in a festival toilet
a music festival toilet and if anyone's
been to a music festival yeah you'll
know that by the fair day is pretty
nasty I was standin in the toilet I
couldn't even sit down because the
toilet roll had ran out there was mud
everywhere and it smelled pretty bad and
I stood there thinking what am i doing I
don't even need the toilet but the
reason I went was because I was
volunteering for a large charity on
climate justice and it was seven years
ago when lots of people didn't believe
in climate change people are very
cynical about activism and my role with
all my teammates was to get people to
sign petitions on climate justice and
educate them a bit more about the issue
and I cared deeply about climate change
and lots of inequality so I go and I
talk to lots of people which made me
nervous
and drained me of energy but I did it
because I cared but I would hide in the
toilets because I'd be exhausted and I
didn't want my teammates down in my
commitment to the cause thinking that I
was slacking and we'd go and meet at the
end of our shift and we count how many
petitions had been signed and often I'd
win the amount of petition signed even
though I had my little breaks in the
toilet but I was always very jealous of
the other activists because either they
had the same amount of energy as they
had when they began the shift of getting
people to sign petitions or often they
had more energy and they'd be really
excited about then going to watch the
bands in the evening and having a dance
and even if I loved the bands all I
wanted to do was to go back to my tent
and have a sleep because I just feel
completely wiped out and I was really
jealous of people that had the energy to
go and party hard at the festivals but
it also made me really angry as well
inside I thought this isn't fair I'm an
introvert and all of that offline
campaign and seems to be favoring it
Yvette's I would go on marches which
trained me that was the other option or
I'd go and join campaigns outside
embassies or shops the only thing that
was on offer was around lots of people
it was very loud activism always
involved lots of people it was
performing none of it was for introverts
and I not only thought that that wasn't
fair because a third to a half of the
world's population introverts which
isn't fair on them because we'd been out
or would be put off by activism and not
doing and everyone needs to be an
activist in this world and also I didn't
think it was particularly clever but I
could see that a lot of the activism
that worked wasn't only extrovert
activism it wasn't only the loud stuff
it wasn't about people the forum and all
the time a lot of the work that was
needed was in the background was hidden
wasn't seen and when I ended up just
being a campaigner because it's the only
job I can do really I was campaigning at
university and for the last ten years
I've been a professional campaigner for
large charities and now I'm a creative
campaign consultant for different
charities as well as all the work I do
but I knew that there were other forms
of activism that were needed I started
tinkering about seven years ago to see
what quieter forms of activism I could
engage with so I didn't burn out as an
activist but also to look at some of the
issues I was concerned about in campaign
and I was very lucky that when I worked
for Oxfam and other big charities that I
could read lots of big reports on what
influenced politicians and businesses
and general public what campaigns worked
really well which ones didn't I'm a bit
of a geek so I look at all that stuff
and I wanted to tink around to see how I
could engage people in social change in
a different way because I think that if
we want the world to be more beautiful
kind and just then our activism should
be beautiful kind and just and often
it's not and today I just want to talk
about three ways that I think activism
needs introverts I think there's lots of
other ways but I'm just going to talk
about three and the first one is
activism is often very quick and it's
about doing so extroverts often their
immediate response to in Justices we've
got to do stuff now we've got to react
really quickly and yes we do need to
react but we need to be strategic in our
campaigning and if we just act on anger
often we do the wrong things I use craft
like needlework like this guy behind me
is doing as a way to not only slow down
those extrovert doers but also to bring
in nervous quiet introverts into
activism by doing repetitive actions
like handicraft you can't do it fast you
have to do it slowly and those
repetitive stitches help you meditate on
the big complex messy social change
issues and figure out what we can do as
an as a citizen as a consumer as a
constituent and all of those different
things it helps you think critically
while you're stitching away and it helps
you be more mindful of what are your
motives are you that Barbie aid worker
that was mentioned before are you about
joining people in solidarity or do you
want to be the savior which often isn't
very ethical but doing needlework
together as well extroverts and
introverts and army vets everyone's on
the scale in different places because
it's a quiet slow former activism
it really helps introverts be heads in
other ways in other areas where they're
often not hairs so because it sounds odd
but while you're stitching you don't
need eye contact with people
so for nervous infrareds it means that
you can stitch away next to someone or a
group of people and ask questions that
you're thinking that often you don't get
time to ask people or you're too nervous
to ask if you give them eye contact so
you can get introverts who are those big
deep thinkers saying that's really
interesting that you want to do that
extrovert form of activism and it's
about shaming people or quickly going
out somewhere where who are you trying
to target and how and is that the best
way to do it so it means you could have
these discussions in a very slow way
which is great for the extra bit to slow
down and think deeply but it's really
good for
the introverts as well to behead and
feel part of that movement for change in
a good way some ways we do it is stitch
cards about what values we thread
through our activism and making sure
that we don't just react in unethical
ways one sometimes we work with art
institutions where we'll get over 150
people at the VNA who can come for hours
sit in stitch together on a particular
issue and then tweet what they're
thinking or how it went like this one
also I always think that activism needs
introverts because we're really good at
intimate activism so a good at SLO
activism and we're really good at
intimate activism and if this year's
toll does anything it's told us that we
need to when we're engaged in power
holders we need to engage them by
listening to people we disagree with by
building bridges not Wars walls or was
and by being critical friends not
aggressive enemies and one example that
I do a lot with introverts but with lots
of people is make gifts for people in
power so not be outside scream and at
them but to give them something like a
bespoke handkerchief saying don't blow
it use your power for goods we know
you've got a difficult job in your
position of power how can we help you
and what's great is for the introvert we
can write letters while we're making
these gifts so for us Marks and Spencers
we tried to campaign to get them to
implement the living wage so we made
them all aboard members 14 board members
bespoke handkerchiefs we wrote them
letters we box them up and we went to
the AGM to hand-deliver our gifts and to
have that form of intimate activism
where we had discussions with them and
what was brilliant was that the chair of
the board told us how amazing our
campaign was how heartfelt it was the
board members like Martha Lane Fox who
has hundreds and thousands of followers
on Twitter and highly influential in
business tweeted how impressed she was
and within 10 months we'd had meetings
with Marks and Spencers to say we know
this is difficult to be a living wage
employer but if you can be one the rest
of the sector will look at it and it's
not right that some of your amazing
workers
working full-time and still can't pay
their bills and we love Marks and
Spencers how can you be the role model
that we want you to be so that was like
intimate form of activism we had lots of
meetings with meet with them we then
gave them Christmas cards and
Valentine's cards to say we really want
to encourage you to employment in the
living wage and within 10 months they'd
announced to the media that they were
going to pay the independent living wage
and now
[Applause]
and now we're trying to work with them
to be accredited which is really
important and we went back to the last
AGM this June and we had these amazing
one-to-one discussions with the board
members who told us how much they love
their hankies and how it really moved
them what we were doing and they all
told us that if we were standing outside
screaming at them and not being gentle
in our protest they wouldn't have even
listened to us nevermind have those
discussions with us and I think
introverts are really good at intimate
activism because we like to listen we
like want ones we don't like small talks
we like those big juicy issues to
discuss with people we don't like
conflict so we avoid at all cost which
is really important when we're trying to
engage power holders not to be
conflicting with them all the time
the third way I think activists are
really really missing out if they don't
engage introverts is that introverts
like I said can be half of the world
population and most of us won't say that
we're introvert or we get embarrassed by
saying what overwhelms us so for me a
few years ago my mum used to send me
texts in capital letters and she can now
do emojis and everything she's fine but
as soon as I'd see this text I'd wince I
think oh it's capital letters it's too
much and I'd have to ignore it to read
the lovely text she sent me and that's a
bit embarrassing to tell people that
capital letters overwhelm you but we
really need introverts to help us do
intriguing activism that attracts them
rather than puts them off we're put off
by big and brash giant posters in
capital letters and exclamation marks
telling us what to do and vying for our
attention so some of the things I do
with people around the world who take
part is make small bits of provocative
street art which are hung off eye level
very small and they're provocative
messages they're not preaching at people
or telling them what to do
they're just getting people to engage in
different ways and think for themselves
because we don't like to be told what to
do it might be wearing a green heart on
your sleeve saying what you love and how
climate change will affect it and we'll
wear it and if people say why are you
wearing a green heart with the word
chocolate on and we can have those
one-to-one intimate conversations and
say I love chocolate
climate change is going to affect day
and I think there's lots of things like
climate change and effects and I really
want to make sure I'm part of the
solution and not the problem and then we
normally deflect because we don't like
to be center of attention and say what
do you love and how a climate change
affecting or it might be shock dropping
instead of shoplifting where we'll make
little mini Scrolls with lovely stories
on about what's the story behind your
clothes is a joyful story of how it's
made or is it a torturous one and we'll
just drop them in little pockets and
shops all lowercase all handwritten with
kisses and smiley faces in ribbon and
then people are excited that they found
it and we often drop them in unethical
shops or in people in friend pockets and
it's a way that we can do offline
campaign and that engages those it
doesn't burn us out but also engages
other people in an intriguing way online
and offline so I've got two calls to
action for the introverts and for the
extra bets film the Omni bet you're
involved in all the way for the
extroverts I want to say that when
you're planning a campaign think about
introverts think about how valuable our
skills are just as much as extroverts
we're good at slowing down and thinking
deeply and the detail of issues we're
really good to bring in them out we're
good at intimate activism so users in
that way and we're good at intriguing
people by doing strange little things
that help create conversations and
thought introvert
my calls for action for you is I know
you like being on your own I know you
like being in your head what activism
needs you so sometimes you've got to get
out there it doesn't mean that you've
got to turn into an extrovert and burn
out because that's no use for anyone but
what it does mean is that you should
value the skills and the traits that you
have the activism needs so for everyone
in this room whether you're an extrovert
or an introvert or an avenue vet the
world needs you now more than ever and
you've got no excuse not to get involved
thanks
[Music]
[Applause]